The features selected for this database come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern:  
'-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.

The Subjects contain the subject performing the activity

The Activity column containst the type of activity being performed:
1 WALKING
2 WALKING_UPSTAIRS
3 WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
4 SITTING
5 STANDING
6 LAYING

Each record in the dataset consists of no more than one entry for each subject and activity.  Each observation is the mean value observed for that column in the original raw data where that subject was performing that activity

Subject           Subject ID
Activity          Activity code
tBodyAcc.mean.X    Floating point value
tBodyAcc.mean.Y    Floating point value
tBodyAcc.mean.Z    Floating point value
tGravityAcc.mean.X    Floating point value
tGravityAcc.mean.Y    Floating point value
tGravityAcc.mean.Z    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerk.mean.X    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerk.mean.Y    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerk.mean.Z    Floating point value
tBodyGyro.mean.X    Floating point value    
tBodyGyro.mean.Y    Floating point value
tBodyGyro.mean.Z    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.X    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Y    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerk.mean.Z    Floating point value
tBodyAccMag.mean    Floating point value
tGravityAccMag.mean    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerkMag.mean    Floating point value
tBodyGyroMag.mean    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerkMag.mean    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.mean.X    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.mean.Y    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.mean.Z    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.meanFreq.X    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.meanFreq.Y    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.meanFreq.Z    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.mean.X    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.mean.Y    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.mean.Z    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.X    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.Y    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.meanFreq.Z    Floating point value    
fBodyGyro.mean.X    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.mean.Y    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.mean.Z    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.meanFreq.X    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.meanFreq.Y    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.meanFreq.Z    Floating point value
fBodyAccMag.mean    Floating point value
fBodyAccMag.meanFreq    Floating point value
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.mean    Floating point value
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.meanFreq    Floating point value
fBodyBodyGyroMag.mean    Floating point value
fBodyBodyGyroMag.meanFreq    Floating point value
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.mean    Floating point value
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.meanFreq    Floating point value
tBodyAcc.std.X    Floating point value
tBodyAcc.std.Y    Floating point value
tBodyAcc.std.Z    Floating point value
tGravityAcc.std.X    Floating point value
tGravityAcc.std.Y    Floating point value
tGravityAcc.std.Z    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerk.std.X    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerk.std.Y    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerk.std.Z    Floating point value
tBodyGyro.std.X    Floating point value
tBodyGyro.std.Y    Floating point value
tBodyGyro.std.Z    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerk.std.X    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerk.std.Y    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerk.std.Z    Floating point value
tBodyAccMag.std    Floating point value
tGravityAccMag.std    Floating point value
tBodyAccJerkMag.std    Floating point value
tBodyGyroMag.std    Floating point value
tBodyGyroJerkMag.std    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.std.X    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.std.Y    Floating point value
fBodyAcc.std.Z    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.std.X    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.std.Y    Floating point value
fBodyAccJerk.std.Z    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.std.X    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.std.Y    Floating point value
fBodyGyro.std.Z    Floating point value
fBodyAccMag.std    Floating point value
fBodyBodyAccJerkMag.std    Floating point value
fBodyBodyGyroMag.std    Floating point value
fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag.std    Floating point value
    